---
question_code: Q16 
question_num: 16 
question_text: Does the randomisation of question parameters, which makes sharing answers between students difficult, adequately address plagiarism? 

question_code_meeting1: C17 
question_code_conf: I3 

contributors: 
- timlowe
- prowlett

---
It seems that randomised parameters, which produce different questions for students, create a barrier to plagiarism, since a friend's answer cannot be directly copied. But is this adequate to address plagiarism?

## What motivates this question?

Hermans (2004) suggests this can develop discussion about method in a way that is “educationally far more positive” (p. 5). 

Rønning (2017) suggests that randomised parameters in questions of the same type leads to widespread production of “a general solution that can be copied” (p. 105). 

There are other aspects to plagiarism or academic integrity (Seaton, 2019). Randomisation, if it works, addresses collusion; issues of impersonation and what other resources, e.g. software, are used when answering questions are unresolved.

## What might an answer look like?

Further study into student behaviour could illuminate the issue. Attempted replication of the work of Davis et al. (2005), who compared results from an unsupervised e-assessment with a “similar” invigilated paper test and conclude that “cheating in CAA is not a significant problem” (p. 69), would seem to offer potential.

## Related questions

* The issue of Y is related to [Q0: Why is XXX?](Q0)

* The issue of randomisation/parameterisation is related to [Q52](Q52) [Q34](Q34) [Q16](Q16)

## References

Davis, L.E., Harrison, M.C., Palipana, A.S. & Ward, J.P. (2005). Assessment-driven learning of mathematics for engineering students. International Journal of Electrical Engineering Education, 42(1), 63-72. https://doi.org/10.7227/IJEEE.42.1.8

Rønning, F. (2017). Influence of computer-aided assessment on ways of working with mathematics. Teaching Mathematics and its Applications, 36(2), 94-107. https://doi.org/10.1093/teamat/hrx001

Seaton, K.A. (2019). Laying groundwork for an understanding of academic integrity in mathematics tasks. International Journal of Mathematical Education in Science and Technology, 50(7), pp. 1063-1072, https://doi.org/10.1080/0020739X.2019.1640399
