---
question_code: Q21
question_num: 21
question_text: "What design methodologies and principles are used by e-assessment task designers?" 

previous_question_code: Q8

contributors: 
- ianjones
- niclaslarson

---


This question is about the approaches used by e-assessment task designers, particularly regarding the design of feedback.



## What motivates this question?

For design methodology, the motivation here is to uncover different practices that may be used by task designers. For instance, detailed post-hoc analysis of student responses enabled by e-assessment have been highlighted as "useful to the teacher for improving and validating feedback" (Sangwin, 2013, p. 35) -- but is such analysis and improvement carried out in practice by task designers, and if so, how?

As for design principles, these are often implicit in task designers' practice --- a motivation for this question is to make them explicit.
Examples of design principles being made explicit in previous work include Sangwin's (2013, Chapter 3) description of general principles of assessment design, and Kinnear et al.'s (2021) account of the specific principles that informed the design of an online course built around e-assessment.
The question highlights aspects such as timing and fading of feedback, echoing a review of research on formative feedback (Shute, 2008). These findings from research may inform the principles used by task designers.

## What might an answer look like?

This seems like a scoping study. The answer to this question might involve a systematic review of the literature, a survey of e-assessment designers, and/or an analysis of existing e-assessments.

## Related questions

* This question only asks about what methodologies and principles are in use; another question asks what principles _should_ be used: [Q22: What principles should inform the design of  e-assessment tasks?]({% link _questions/Q22.md %})
* Principles relating to feedback are addressed by various questions, e.g.
  - [Q3: What are the approaches to detecting and feeding back on students’ errors?]({% link _questions/Q3.md %})
  - [Q10: Under what circumstances is diagnosing errors worth the extra effort, as compared with generally addressing errors known to be typical?]({% link _questions/Q10.md %})

## References

<div class="reference_list" markdown="1">

Kinnear, G., Wood, A. K., & Gratwick, R. (2021). Designing and evaluating an online course to support transition to university mathematics. International Journal of Mathematical Education in Science and Technology. <https://doi.org/10.1080/0020739X.2021.1962554> 

Sangwin, C. J. (2013). Computer aided assessment of mathematics. Oxford University Press. Retrieved from <https://doi.org/10.1093/acprof:oso/9780199660353.003.0003>

Shute, V. J. (2008). Focus on Formative Feedback. Review of Educational Research, 78(1), 153–189. <https://doi.org/10.3102/0034654307313795>

</div>
