---
question_code: Q26 
question_num: 26 
question_text: How can we assess mathematical problem solving using e-assessment? 

question_code_meeting1: A21 
question_code_conf: NU4 

contributors: 
- prowlett

---
*TODO: Expanding on the question in 2-3 sentences*

## What motivates this question?

*TODO: Summary of relelvant existing work, drawing on original submission and any comments from the survey*

This question is somewhat complicated by the common use of 'problem' as a synonym for 'question' in mathematics assessment literature. Presumably the question here means 'problem solving' as the more open-ended, creative approach to solving unfamiliar problems. So we might refer to a student repeating techniques and methods as they have been shown as completing 'exercises' and reserve 'problem' for this. 

Beevers and Paterson (2003) say e-assessment may be too structured to test problem-solving abilities because students do not have “freedom to work...in a variety of ways, all equally correct”. Marking extended work where students do not feel restrictions on their work is very difficult (Sangwin, 2015; Harjula, 2017). 

Combined tests may be an option, where e-assessment is used for some routine calculations within a larger piece of work.

## What might an answer look like?

*TODO: Description of research that may be carried out to address this question - ideally including planned work by WG members!*

## Related questions

* This is related to [Q27: How can we assess open-ended mathematical tasks using e-assessment?](Q27) and [Q28: Can the assessment of proof be automated?](Q28).
* Combinations of e-assessment and human marking are considered in [Q48](Q48).

## References

Beevers, C.E. & Paterson, J.S. (2003). Automatic assessment of problem-solving skills in mathematics. Active Learning in Higher Education, 4(2), 127-144. https://doi.org/10.1177/1469787403004002002

Harjula, M. (2017). STACK with state. MSOR Connections, 15(2), 60-69. https://doi.org/10.21100/msor.v15i2.408

Sangwin, C. (2015). Computer Aided Assessment of Mathematics Using STACK. In S.J. Cho (Ed.), Selected Regular Lectures from the 12th International Congress on Mathematical Education (pp. 698-713). Cham: Springer. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-17187-6_39
