---
question_code: Q27 
question_num: 27 
question_text: How can we assess open-ended mathematical tasks using e-assessment? 

question_code_meeting1: C10 
question_code_conf: NU5 

contributors: 
- timlowe
- prowlett

---

## What motivates this question?
This question is directed towards the computer marking of assessment, rather than the computer mediated submission of an assessment for human marking. 

Writing mathematics on a piece of paper, a student has a great deal of freedom in how they proceed. On an e-assessment system, however, this production of mathematics is constrained either by the linear format of typed mathematics, or by the sequencing of questions. Giving students freedom similar to writing on a piece of paper would make marking difficult, although Harjula (2017) talks about a “free-path question type” which allows the student the freedom of writing on a piece of paper. Beyond simply mathematics, there are areas where interpretation of results, comment on significance, critical thinking, construction of a diagram, etc. might be desirable in assessment. Can e-assessment help with these? 

## What might an answer look like?
The answer might involve a review of paper-based assessments, and investigations as to how best these could be replicated within a computer assessment system. It should also involve trials of the questions with students and an analysis of their feedback on their experience. 

## Related questions
* This is related to [Q15:How can e-assessment support take-home open book mathematics examinations at university level?](Q15)
* This is related to [Q26: How can we assess mathematical problem solving using e-assessment?](Q26) and [Q28: Can the assessment of proof be automated?](Q28).
* This is related to [Q47: How can we automate the assessment of mathematical work traditionally done using paper and pen?](Q47) and [Q49: Are there differences in performance on mathematics problems presented and carried out on paper versus on the computer?](Q49).

## References
Harjula, M. (2017). STACK with state. MSOR Connections, 15(2), 60-69. https://doi.org/10.21100/msor.v15i2.408
