---
question_code: Q35 
question_num: 35 
question_text: How do mathematics students engage with questions and feedback provided by an e-assessment system? (BUT APPEARS IN JOURNAL ARTICLE AS How do mathematics students interact with an e-assessment system?)
question_code_meeting1: A7 
question_code_conf: SE4 

contributors: 
- ikon625
- prowlett
- niclaslarson
- georgekinnear

---

What do students do when they engage with a mathematical question presented by the e-assessment system? Do the use paper-and-pencil to make calculations, do they do that mentally, or do they use other resources? Maybe even more importantly, how do students engage with the automated feedback that they receive? Do they read it? How? What do they do next?
Igor's team in Auckland has started tackling questions of this sort.

## What motivates this question?

More often than not, task and feedback design is based on assumptions regarding how students interact with what e-assessment system has to offer. Generating an empirical base of evidence on how students engage with e-systems seems paramount.

## What might an answer look like?

The answer might look like trajectories and profiles that account for students' reactions to offered questions and feedback.

A possible approach would be to analyse observations of students as they work on e-assessment tasks, similar to Dorko (2020). This could be supplemented with analysis of a larger group of students' interactions with e-assessment, using logs generated by the system (e.g., Chen et al., 2018; Roth et al., 2008).

## Related questions

The issue of student engagement with e-assessment system is related to:

* [Q11: How useful for students’ long-term learning is feedback that gives a series of follow-up questions, from a decision tree, versus a single terminal piece of feedback that tells the students exactly what they should have done?](Q11)
* [Q34: Does repeated practice on similar problems encourage mathematics students to discover deep links between items, or simply encourage memorisation and pattern-spotting?](Q34)
* [Q33: What should students be encouraged to do following success in e-assessment?](Q33)
* [Q53: How do students respond to automated feedback, and are there any differences with how they would respond to the same feedback from a teacher?](Q53)
* [Q54: How can e-assessment be used in group work when learning mathematics, and what effect does the group element have on individuals' learning?](Q54)

## References

Chen, X., Breslow, L., & DeBoer, J. (2018). Analyzing productive learning behaviors for students using immediate corrective feedback in a blended learning environment. Computers & Education, 117, 59-74.

Dorko, A. (2020). Red X’s and Green Checks: A Model of How Students Engage with Online Homework. International Journal of Research in Undergraduate Mathematics Education, 6(3), 446–474. https://doi.org/10.1007/s40753-020-00113-w

Roth, V., Ivanchenko, V., & Record, N. (2008). Evaluating student response to WeBWorK, a web-based homework delivery and grading system. Computers & Education, 50(4), 1462–1482. https://doi.org/10.1016/J.COMPEDU.2007.01.005
