---
question_code: Q40 
question_num: 40 
question_text: To what extent does the timing of assessment affect student learning? 

question_code_meeting1: B11
question_code_conf: SE9 

contributors: 

---
*TODO: Expanding on the question in 2-3 sentences*

## What motivates this question?

There are choices to be made about the timing of e-assessments, particularly when there are multiple assessments taking place throughout a course. 
Previous research (Uner & Roediger, 2018) has investigated the impact of placing assessment questions at the end of a chapter versus throughout a chapter (using biology as a context).

A related aspect of timing is about feedback - should it be made available to students immediately after an attempt, or after a delay? There is mixed evidence on this point, with some large-scale work underway to investigate (Fyfe et al., 2019). There may be scope for more fine-grained investigation of this question in mathematics assessments specifically, for instance to investigate whether any effect is moderated by the types of questions (from the range typically seen in mathematics assessments).

## What might an answer look like?

*TODO: Description of research that may be carried out to address this question - ideally including planned work by WG members!*

## Related questions

* This question about timing is a particular aspect of [Q39: How can formative e-assessments improve students’ performance in end-of-module assessments?](Q39)
* The answer may depend on the types of question involved, related to [Q37: What types of mathematical reasoning are required to complete current e-assessments?](Q37)
* The timing of assessments will be a relevant factor for [Q35: How do mathematics students interact with an e-assessment system?](Q35)



## References

Fyfe, E., de Leeuw, J. R., Carvalho, P. F., Goldstone, R., & Motz, B. (2019, May 28). ManyClasses 1: Assessing the generalizable effect of immediate versus delayed feedback across many college classes. https://doi.org/10.31234/osf.io/4mvyh

Uner, O., & Roediger, H. L. (2018). The Effect of Question Placement on Learning from Textbook Chapters. Journal of Applied Research in Memory and Cognition, 7(1), 116–122. https://doi.org/10.1016/J.JARMAC.2017.09.002
