---
question_code: Q45
question_num: 45
question_text: "How can comparative judgement be used for e-assessment?" 

previous_question_code: Q24

contributors: 
- ianjones

---





## What motivates this question?

[A new Moodle plug-in is available for CJ.](https://github.com/ianjones/moodle-assignsubmission_comparativejudgement) This takes care of administrative issues such as how do students submit their work etc.

Perhaps the question should say **summative** assessment. There are decisions to make and barriers to navigate when implementing comparative judgement in HE. For example:
* CJ claims to need collective judgement, but in HE it is common for one lecturer to mark the work for one module. Do we ignore the claim that collective judgement is needed, or do we used peer assessment? (and see [Q19: How can peer assessment be used as part of e-assessment?]({% link _questions/Q19.md %})).
* CJ offers no feedback in the sense of red ink on students work. For some institutions and some lecturers this is a barrier.
* CJ makes no use of rubrics, so how will students know what they are aiming for? Again this might be a barrier for some institutions.
* On the other hand, it is possible to suggest some key issues that might be included in a "high quality script". This guidance can be compared to rubrics. How will that affect the judgement?
* Is it possible to also let the quality of the judging count towards the grade? One measure is the jugdes' infit. This is a possibility to avoid judges who just click to do their minimum number of judgements.
* The above are subject general issues. Important to consider maths specific CJ issues. For example, we would expect to use CJ to assess nebulous learning outcomes such as conceptual understanding, proof comprehension, problem solving, sustained reasoning.

## What might an answer look like?

Models of CJ use with validated assessment outcomes. (Validated against: achievement data? other module tests?)

## Related questions

* The issue of CJ is related to [Q44: How can e-assessment using comparative judgment support learning?]({% link _questions/Q44.md %})
* And also to [Q19: How can peer assessment be used as part of e-assessment?]({% link _questions/Q19.md %})

## References

<div class="reference_list" markdown="1">

* Jones, I., & Alcock, L. (2014). Peer assessment without assessment criteria. Studies in Higher Education, 39(10), 1774–1787. <https://doi.org/10.1080/03075079.2013.821974>

* Jones, I., & Sirl, D. (2017). Peer assessment of mathematical understanding using comparative judgement. Nordic Studies in Mathematics Education, 22(4), 147–164.

</div>
