---
question_code: Q47 
question_num: 47 
question_text: How can we automate the assessment of mathematical work traditionally done using paper and pen? 

question_code_meeting1: A2 
question_code_conf: TD6 

contributors:
- niclaslarson

---

This is an overarching question, with a number of specific sub-parts.  It also rather presumes that the goal of CAA is to replicate online traditional processes!  Sub parts of this question include the following.

1. Entering mathematical writing, and diagrams, into a machine.  While this could be a simple photograph upload, we interpret this question as 
seeking to do rather more than this, specifically that the machine will interpret students' work and interpret the student's intended meaning.
2. Actually perform an assessment, such as seeking to establish objective criteria.
3. On the basis of criteria established, provide outcomes such as feedback, a numerical score, and notes for statistical purposes.

## What motivates this question?

The motivation for this question is fundamentally conservative, i.e. a desire to replicate online traditional work.  Some comparisons of work with traditional examinations, Sangwin & Kocher (2016).

## What might an answer look like?

We anticipate, in the near future, that this question is best addressed through more specific sub-questions.

## Related questions

This seems very related to [Q27: How can we assess open-ended mathematical tasks using e-assessment?](Q27), and the discussion there is mostly relevant.  The issue is related to [Q50: What methods are available for student input of mathematics? ](Q50).  The issue is related to [Q49: Are there differences in performance on mathematics problems presented and carried out on paper versus on the computer?](Q49).  The issue is related to [Q17: How can we emulate human marking of students' mathematical working such as follow-on marking and partially correct marking?](Q17).


## References

Sangwin, C. J. and Kocher, N., Automation of mathematics examinations, Computers and Education (2016), 94, 215-227. DOI:10.1016/j.compedu.2015.11.014
