---
question_code: Q48 
question_num: 48 
question_text: How can the suitability of e-assessment tools for summative assessment be improved by combining computer-marking and pen-marking? 

question_code_meeting1: B1 
question_code_conf: TD7 

contributors: 
- prowlett

---
*TODO: Expanding on the question in 2-3 sentences*

## What motivates this question?

Rowlett (2020) investigated use of a partially-automated assessment approach, "in which automated question setting is used to generate individualised versions of a coursework assignment, which is completed by students and marked by hand". This aims to increase the reliability of a coursework assignment, using randomisation to reduce copying and collusion, while not limiting the validity, in terms of being able to set complex and open-ended tasks with diverse submission formats. This is because the advantages of randomised question-setting are not paired with the limitations of automated marking. Rowlett finds this approach to be capable of adapting a coursework assignment to make it less sensitive to copying and collusion (and therefore more reliable) while maintaining its validity, though leading to reduced efficiency for the marker.

Blyth and Labovic (2009) use assessment which is randomised by students themselves via Maple for submission and marking by hand. 

Approaches are used in statistics where a set of static questions are combined with a randomised data set, producing individualised work that is marked by hand (for example, see Hunt, 2007 and Fawcett, Foster and Youd, 2008). The approach of Fawcett, Foster and Youd includes an e-assessment system and use of multiple-choice questions for some parts. 

Sangwin (2015) proposes combined assessments, in which a "routine calculation within a longer proof" is "checked automatically... before the whole piece of work is submitted to an intelligent human marker". 

Such approaches are largely experimental, but show promise. Key to them is the ability to access some advantages of e-assessment, while avoiding some of the limitations. 

## What might an answer look like?

*TODO: Description of research that may be carried out to address this question - ideally including planned work by WG members!*

## Related questions

* The issue of Y is related to [Q0: Why is XXX?](Q0)

## References

Blyth, B., & Labovic, A. (2009). Using Maple to implement eLearning integrated with computer aided assessment. International Journal of Mathematical Education in Science and Technology, 40(7), 975–988, https://doi.org/10.1080/00207390903226856

Fawcett, L., Foster, B., & Youd, A. (2008). Using computer based assessments in a large statistics service course. MSOR Connections, 8(3), 45–48, https://doi.org/10.11120/msor.2008.08030045

Hunt, N. (2007). Individualized Statistics Coursework Using Spreadsheets. Teaching Statistics, 29(2), 38–43, https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1467-9639.2007.00254.x

Rowlett, P. (2020). Partially-automated individualized assessment of higher education mathematics. International Journal of Mathematical Education in Science and Technology. In press. https://doi.org/10.1080/0020739X.2020.1822554

Sangwin, C. (2015). Computer Aided Assessment of Mathematics Using STACK. In S.J. Cho (Ed.), Selected Regular Lectures from the 12th International Congress on Mathematical Education (pp. 698–713). Cham, Switzerland: Springer, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-17187-6_39
