---
question_code: Q51 
question_num: 51 
question_text: When we design e-assessments often we think of a question we would ask on a 'normal' pen and paper exam and we 'translate' this in e-assessment. What are the implications, technicalities, affordances and drawbacks of this transfer? 

question_code_meeting1: A19
question_code_conf: TD10 

contributors: Paola Iannone 

---


## What motivates this question?

When e-assessment is introduced to a course for the first time, it is often used as a replacement for existing paper-based assessments, e.g. in one case study of a department introducing computer-aided assessment to a linear algebra module, "exercise sheets were replaced by online weekly quizzes" (Iannone & Simpson, 2012, p. 37). In this scenario, it is natural that lecturers or task designers would look to "translate" existing tasks to e-assessments.

This "translation" approach may have implications for the range of tasks that are set using e-assessment: some existing paper-based tasks may be "untranslatable", while other tasks that would be suited to e-assessment may not be considered. Moreover, the tranlation of tasks can lead to unintended extra demand being added to tasks (e.g., Lawson, 2002, p. 4).

Thus, from the task designer's point of view, the "translation" approach offers certain affordances and drawbacks -- but the range and impact of these is not well-known.

## What might an answer look like?

One approach would be to survey or interview task designers about their experiences of translating tasks, to identify what they perceive as the affordances and drawbacks of the approach. This could be supplemented by some close analysis of the translation process in practice, perhaps comparing the types of skills assessed before and after translation (e.g. using the MATH taxonomy; see Kinnear et al., 2020).

## Related questions

* Comparing pen and paper with e-assessment is a feature of several questions:
  - [Q14: Are dyslexic, dyscalculic and other types of students disadvantaged by online assessments rather than paper-based assessments?](Q14)
  - [Q17: How can we emulate human marking of students’ mathematical working such as follow-on marking and partially correct marking?](Q17)
  - [Q47: How can we automate the assessment of mathematical work traditionally done using paper and pen?](Q47)
  - [Q49: Are there differences in performance on mathematics problems presented and carried out on paper versus on the computer?](Q49)
* The "translation" approach should be considered among principles for task design:
  - [Q8: What design methodology (e.g. adding student input and/or teacher feedback to the domain of feedback design) and what design principles (e.g. timing and fading of feedback, feedback in crises tasks, variation of feedback) do task designers of e-assessment make use of?](Q8)
  - [Q43: What principles should inform the design of mathematics e-assessment tasks?](Q43)
* One choice to be made during translation is about whether/how to randomise: [Q52: What effect does the use of random versions of a question (e.g. using parameterised values) have on the outcomes of e-assessment?](Q52)

## References

Iannone, P., & Simpson, A. (2012). Mapping University Mathematics Assessment Practices. University of East Anglia. Retrieved from https://mathshe.files.wordpress.com/2012/08/mu-map.pdf

Kinnear, G., Bennett, M., Binnie, R., Bolt, R., & Zheng, Y. (2020). Reliable application of the MATH taxonomy sheds light on assessment practices. Teaching Mathematics and Its Applications: International Journal of the IMA, 1–15. https://doi.org/10.1093/teamat/hrz017

Lawson, D. (2002). Computer-aided assessment in mathematics: Panacea or propaganda? International Journal of Innovation in Science and Mathematics Education, 9(1). Retrieved from https://openjournals.library.sydney.edu.au/index.php/CAL/article/view/6095
