---
question_code: Q6 
question_num: 6 
question_text: How can content-specific features of provided feedback, for instance explanations with examples versus generic explanations, support students' learning? 

question_code_meeting1: A8 
question_code_conf: EF6 

contributors: 
- ikon625

---
Designing feedback raises questions about the degree of explicitedness that will help the student to avoid making the same error again. Then, should feedback "just" inform what one needs to do in questions of this sort, should an example be integrated? And do all these features really make a difference.

## What motivates this question?

*TODO: Summary of relelvant existing work, drawing on original submission and any comments from the survey*

In a study using quizzes on terms from psychology, Finn et al. (2018) found that participants' performance on a later cued recall test tended to be higher when they had received "elaborated feedback" (that presented an example of the concept) rather than just the correct answer.

## What might an answer look like?

It might be possible that didactical nuances of this sort do not really make a difference to students' learning. After all, appreciating a well-crafted feedback requires students to engage with it thoroughly rather than just glimpse on it. Igor' team in Auckland works on this question as part of the project on how students engage with automated feedback.

## Related questions

* The issue of value of content-specific feedback is related to [Q35: How do mathematics students interact with an e-assessment system?](Q35)
* There is a detailed discussion of the relative merits of specific feedback under [Q3](Q3).

## References

Finn, B., Thomas, R., & Rawson, K. A. (2018). Learning more from feedback: Elaborating feedback with examples enhances concept learning. Learning and Instruction, 54, 104–113. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.learninstruc.2017.08.007
